---
title: 'Life in Pictures'
layout: ../../layouts/WritingLayout.astro
pubDate: 2025-06-09
tags: ['photography']
---
# Life in Pictures

After having the "writings" section in my current website for a while now, I decided that I should really start writing down my thoughts/experiences. I recently bought my first camera and first lens, a [Fujifilm X-T50](https://www.fujifilm-x.com/global/products/cameras/x-t50/) and a [Fujinon XF18-55mm f/2.8-4.0](https://www.fujifilm-x.com/global/products/lenses/xf18-55mmf28-4-r-lm-ois/) kit lens.

(insert camera image)

I always liked the feeling I was getting when I was able to capture a good picture with my phone camera. But other than knowing simple rules like not taking picture of someone if the sun is behind them, my photography knowledge was pretty much zero. Most of the time I didn't have the optimal lighting condition to take a picture, and so it felt like it was unnecessary even trying to take a picture. I just felt like often times, it wasn't possible to take a photo that I would like. I just blamed the lighting conditions and moved on. Which can't be further away from the truth, of course. Now that I have some photography knowledge, I kind of regret thinking like that.

(insert not bad picture taking with an iPhone)

My interest in visual art started from my childhood. Back then I was very into drawing. I didn't take lessons, but just drawing what I was seeing. What really gave me satisfaction with drawing was that I was able to see details that I would otherwise won't see, like shadows patterns, reflections, texture etc. However, at some point in my early teenage years, I stopped drawing. I realised that I don't really enjoy the process of drawing itself, I just liked the outcome of my drawings. 
At some point in high school, I started watching movies of Stanley Kubrick. Even to my uneducated eye, I could feel that there was something special going on with his way of telling a story, through the lens. Almost every scene in his movies looked like a piece of painting, very deliberately framed to create an aesthetically pleasing scene without being pretentious, as opposed to the style of Wes Anderson. 

(insert photo of clockwork orange)

What sparked my interest in photography didn't happen until two years ago. I was watching [A Life in Pictures](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stanley_Kubrick:_A_Life_in_Pictures), it hit me exactly when I saw this photo:

(insert kubrick's photo)

This was immediately one of the best photo's I've ever seen. The sadness in the clerk's face is undeniably real and it already tells us that there's sorrow in the news: Roosevelt, the president of the United States, is dead.
The strength of the sincere emotion in this photo is really what I dreamed of emulating in my own art. This photo made me realise that photography was much more than I thought it was, and I had to take part in it. I also want to take pictures that have artistic value. Pictures that provoke some sort of emotion, feeling, nostalgia even. I knew I had to get a "real" camera - as opposed to having a good phone camera - if I really want to achieve this. 

(insert photo by ernst haas)

> "I am not interested in shooting new things - I am interested to see things new."
> &#8211; Ernst Haas

I mean, shooting with a phone camera is not all that bad. It doesn't require any brain effort to take pictures. Align the scene with the frame and press the button and you just got yourself a decent photo. Each exposure setting and focus are automatically done for you. The default camera app in your iPhone is maximised for simplicity of use. A 5 year-old can use it. The simplicity of just pressing a single button, cuts down the amount of overhead from seeing an image with your eyes to actually getting it is almost non-existent. 

(insert non-serious image shot with iPhone)

Of course this simplicity comes at a cost, especially with the default shooting experience of an iPhone. First of all, the sensor size you get with a phone camera is tiny compared to the sensor in a dedicated camera. This makes a big difference in low-light conditions (this doesn't necessarily mean taking a photo in a dark place, I will explain this later). To compensate the small size of their sensors, phones usually do heavy software post-processing in the background. Although this does improve the end result compared to not doing any sort of processing, it's still inferior to the quality you can achieve by just having a bigger sensor. The second issue is about the limiting factor of the default camera app. Unless you have a phone with "pro" photography capabilities, the default camera app doesn't allow you to take control of the camera's fundamental functions.

After learning about the limitations of my phone camera, I decided to take the leap into getting an actual camera. Before making the purchase, I started digging into the photography rabbit-hole, the first thing I looked up was how a digital camera captures images. This lead to learning about exposure and different parameters that affect it. It turns out if you understand these three parameters, then you've already learned the required knowledge to take your first picture:

- [Shutter speed](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shutter_speed) is the amount of time that the sensor is exposed to the light via the shutter. If you need to capture a fast moving object, your shutter speed needs to be fast at the expense of less light hitting the sensor.
- [Aperture](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Aperture) is the pupil of the camera lens. The larger the pupil the larger light captured at cost of depth-of-field.
- [ISO](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Film_speed#ISO) is the light sensitivity of the sensor. A high ISO number amplifies the amount of light entering through the lens. But it's good to remember that any kind of amplification introduces noise.

**Light is the resource in photography**. Apart from the existing light in the scene, tweaking these parameters require you to make certain trade-offs when you want to shoot. Because you usually want your pictures to be in a certain light level. If you want your image be noiseless, you need to lower your ISO. But this reduces the light level so you compensate by either opening up the aperture, or decreasing the shutter speed. To keep all of your image in focus, you decided to decrease the shutter speed, but now your image has motion blur. Depending on what sort of image you want to capture, this could be a desired effect:

(insert image by ernst haas)

Here's an image I took using slow shutter speed:

(my image)

In the beginning, it took me a while to get use to thinking about exposure in these 3 dimensions. But as I took more pictures with my camera in different light conditions, I got better at estimating these values. And you know what matters the most is that I enjoyed taking pictures more than I ever did.

(insert more images I took)

What I realised is that the more you willingly put effort into something you do, the end result will have more value in your (and usually other people's) eyes. In the current era of easy-access and over-consumption, I have the strong feeling of doing the exact opposite. Slowing down and taking time to put effort into creating work that has real value, at least to me.
